.TH VAF-SUB-INSTANCE 8 "2026-06-10" "versatile-autoreg-vaf" "System Administration"
.SH NAME
vaf-sub-instance \- manage VAF sub-instances
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B vaf-sub-instance
.B \-\-create
.I name
.B \-\-upper
.I HOST
.B \-\-key
.I KEY
.br
.B vaf-sub-instance
.B \-\-delete
.I name
.br
.B vaf-sub-instance
.B \-\-list
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B vaf-sub-instance
is the command-line interface for managing VAF sub-instances.
A sub-instance allows a single VAF node to register simultaneously in
multiple upper VAS servers, each with an independent UUID, configuration
and state.
.PP
Sub-instance configuration directories are created under
.IR /etc/vaf/vaf.sub/<name>/ .
Each directory contains a
.I vaf.conf
file with at least
.B UPPER_VAS_HOST
and
.BR KEY ,
and a
.I .enabled
flag file whose presence enables the sub-instance.
.SS Sub-instance UUID
Each sub-instance derives a stable UUID using UUIDv5 (SHA-1 namespace),
with the base
.I /etc/vaf/vaf-id
as namespace and the instance name as the name input. This guarantees
that the sub-instance is always recognised by the same UUID in its upper
VAS, even after reinstalling the package.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-\-create " name " \-\-upper " HOST " \-\-key " KEY"
Create a new sub-instance named
.I name
targeting
.I HOST
with aggregation key
.IR KEY .
Creates
.I /etc/vaf/vaf.sub/<name>/vaf.conf
and
.IR /etc/vaf/vaf.sub/<name>/.enabled .
Restart
.BR vaf (8)
after creation to activate.
.TP
.BI \-\-delete " name"
Delete the sub-instance named
.IR name ,
removing its configuration directory.
Restart
.BR vaf (8)
after deletion.
.TP
.B \-\-list
List all sub-instances with their
.BR UPPER_VAS_HOST ,
.BR KEY ,
enabled status and current state.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR vaf (8),
.BR vaf-sub-manager (8),
.BR vaf-sub (8)
.SH AUTHOR
Gabriel Navia <correos@gabrielnav.es>
