.TH VAF 8 "2026-06-10" "versatile-autoreg-vaf" "System Administration"
.SH NAME
vaf \- Versatile Autoregistration Federated daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B vaf
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B vaf
is a systemd service that combines the roles of
.BR vac (8)
(client registration) and
.BR val (8)
(inventory listener) to federate multiple VAS servers into a hierarchy.
.PP
.B vaf
monitors the inventory of a local
.BR vas (8)
instance and publishes it as an
.B extra_imperative
field in an upper-level VAS, under the key
.BR VAF_<KEY> .
This allows the upper VAS to aggregate inventories from multiple sites
without any changes to the VAS server code.
.SS Dual-block main loop
On each cycle
.B vaf
runs two independent blocks governed by separate timers:
.TP
.B CHECK block
Compares the local VAS version against the stored version. If changed,
downloads the local inventory and re-registers in the upper VAS with the
updated
.B VAF_<KEY>
payload.
.TP
.B HB block
Checks whether the node identity (hostname, IP, MAC) has changed. If so,
sends a full
.B POST /register
to the upper VAS; otherwise sends a lightweight
.B POST /heartbeat
(~50 bytes).
.SS VAF-Aware push
When
.B BUMP_LISTEN_PORT
is set to a non-zero value,
.B vaf
opens a UDP socket on that port.
Any incoming datagram interrupts the polling sleep and triggers an
immediate CHECK cycle.
Requires
.BR netcat-openbsd .
This mechanism is also used by the
.B local-vaf-register
hook, automatically installed in
.IR /etc/vas/hooks.d/ ,
to notify
.B vaf
of every
.BR vas (8)
.B bump_version()
event.
.SS Sub-instances
.B vaf
can register simultaneously in multiple upper VAS servers through
sub-instances managed by
.BR vaf-sub-manager (8).
See
.BR vaf-sub-instance (8)
for the sub-instance management CLI.
.SH CONFIGURATION
.B vaf
reads
.I /etc/vaf/vaf.conf
and overlays in
.IR /etc/vaf/vaf.conf.d/ .
Key variables:
.TP
.B KEY
Aggregation key. The local inventory is published in the upper VAS as
.BR extra_imperative.VAF_<KEY> .
Mandatory; fatal error if empty.
.TP
.B LOCAL_VAS_HOST
Base URL of the local VAS instance. Auto-detected from
.I /etc/vas/vas.conf
if not set.
.TP
.B UPPER_VAS_HOST
Base URL of the upper VAS. Mandatory for operation; daemon blocks until defined.
.TP
.B CHECK_SECONDS
Interval for the CHECK block in seconds (default:
.BR 300 ).
.TP
.B HEARTBEAT_SECONDS
Interval for the HB block in seconds. Defaults to
.B CHECK_SECONDS
if unset.
.TP
.B BUMP_LISTEN_PORT
UDP port for VAF-Aware push notifications;
.B 0
disables (default:
.BR 0 ).
.TP
.B SYNC_UPPER
If
.BR true ,
download the upper VAS inventory into
.I /var/lib/vaf/upper_clients.json
after each version change (default:
.BR false ).
.TP
.B PARALLEL_MODE
Controls sub-instance parallelism:
.B both
(default),
.BR only_parallel ,
or
.BR only_main .
.TP
.B LOG_LEVEL
Log verbosity:
.B no
|
.B normal
|
.B debug
(default:
.BR normal ).
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/vaf/vaf.conf
Main configuration file.
.TP
.I /etc/vaf/vaf.conf.d/
Drop-in configuration overlays.
.TP
.I /etc/vaf/vaf-id
Persistent node UUID (generated once, mode 600).
.TP
.I /etc/vaf/extras_imperative.d/
Hook scripts for imperative extras sent to the upper VAS.
.TP
.I /etc/vaf/extras_informative.d/
Hook scripts for informative extras sent to the upper VAS.
.TP
.I /etc/vaf/hooks_local.d/
Hook scripts executed when the local VAS inventory changes.
.TP
.I /var/lib/vaf/identity.json
Node identity as confirmed by the upper VAS.
.TP
.I /var/lib/vaf/local_version
Last local VAS version processed.
.TP
.I /var/lib/vaf/clients.json
Last local inventory downloaded.
.TP
.I /usr/share/vaf/vaf.conf.defaults
Reference copy of all configuration variables with documentation.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR vaf-register (8),
.BR vaf-sub (8),
.BR vaf-sub-manager (8),
.BR vaf-sub-instance (8),
.BR vas (8),
.BR vac (8),
.BR systemctl (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Gabriel Navia <correos@gabrielnav.es>
